## Active Proposals

| Proposal ID | Proposal Title | Voting End Time | VOTED |
|-------------|----------------|-----------------|-------|
| 670 | Preapprove Incentives for Quote Asset Pairings | Sat Nov 04 2023 10:14:10 UTC | ✅ YES |
| 671 | Automatic Staking of Osmosis Incentive Rewards | Sat Nov 04 2023 10:29:23 UTC | ⏳ NOT VOTED |
| 672 | 💎$OSMO Airdrop ✅ - CELESTIA TESTNET  | Sat Nov 04 2023 20:46:57 UTC | ⏳ NOT VOTED |
| 673 | Expedited: Establish Superfluid Staking for TIA and redirect a portion of Incentives | Sun Nov 05 2023 20:03:01 UTC | ⏳ NOT VOTED |
| 674 | Expedited: Add TIA as Fee Token | Sun Nov 05 2023 20:06:56 UTC | ⏳ NOT VOTED |

---

### 🗳 670: Preapprove Incentives for Quote Asset Pairings
- Voting Start: Mon Oct 30 2023 10:14:10 UTC
- Voting End: Sat Nov 04 2023 10:14:10 UTC

<details>
<summary>Proposal Text</summary>
 
This proposal signals that Supercharged pools composed of two Quote assets should be automatically included in the Osmosis incentives program. 

## Background 
This proposal builds on [Proposal 638](https://www.mintscan.io/osmosis/proposals/638), which removed incentives from all non-strategic pairings by declaring that these pairings should be included by default. 

This proposal asks for a narrower scope of strategic pools than Proposal 638 by only automatically making Supercharged pools with pairings of two Quote assets eligible for incentives. 

Quote assets on Osmosis are currently: 
* USDC 
* USDT 
* DAI 
* WBTC 
* ETH 
* ATOM 
* OSMO 

Adding incentives encourages the formation of popular non-OSMO trade pairings, such as ATOM/USDC and ETH/WBTC, as well as promoting the creation of alternative OSMO pairings that already exist, such as an OSMO/ATOM pool with 0.05% spread factor. 

Incentivizing these alternative pairings will reduce trader fees for popular trade routes by reducing the requirement for multihop trades, which are no longer discounted, and allowing liquidity providers to expand into lower fee pools without missing out on Osmosis incentives. 

This reduction in fees for major routes should further increase the volume through Osmosis and increase taker fees for the protocol. 

Further proposals will be needed to include new pools in the correct Volume Splitting Gauge for the pairing and adjust the incentives distribution to the new gauge. 

Volume Splitting Gauges will continue to have incentives allocated to the pairing according to the methodology defined for pools in [Proposal 578](https://www.mintscan.io/osmosis/proposals/578). 

**Forum Thread:** [https://forum.osmosis.zone/t/automated-incentives-for-quote-asset-pairings/480](https://forum.osmosis.zone/t/automated-incentives-for-quote-asset-pairings/480)
</details>

---

### 🗳 671: Automatic Staking of Osmosis Incentive Rewards
- Voting Start: Mon Oct 30 2023 10:29:23 UTC
- Voting End: Sat Nov 04 2023 10:29:23 UTC

<details>
<summary>Proposal Text</summary>
 
This proposal would approve a change to Osmosis tokenomics during a future software upgrade that automatically stakes internal OSMO liquidity rewards to a user’s preferred validator set. 

## Background 
Under the current tokenomic design, OSMO liquidity rewards are mainly allocated to Supercharged pools, as these cater for the majority of volume, accumulating block by block, requiring a claiming transaction. 

With the increased swap fees generated by the efficiency of concentrated liquidity positions, the fee subsidy rate on Osmosis has fallen below one, meaning that more fees are being generated for liquidity providers than they are receiving from OSMO incentives. 

 [Graph of Fee Subsidy Rate over time](https://imgur.com/a/DDfCHjs) 

This has changed the purpose of OSMO incentives from being the main reason to provide liquidity to being a guide to which pools should have additional liquidity deployed to optimize trading routes. 

Since the loss of the OSMO multihop discount with the implementation of taker fees, this will likely be pairings directly between two non-OSMO assets. Incentivizing these pools to attract liquidity will maximize volume by minimizing trader fees per trade. Therefore, the purpose of OSMO incentives is to bootstrap these pools initially, followed by supplementing any impermanent loss over time by Liquidity Providers. 

Historically, Osmosis governance has been reluctant to allocate OSMO incentives to non-OSMO pools as these liquidity providers have no reason to keep the emissions by compounding back into the pool. This led to governance proposals being passed, such as: 
* Proposal 128: Add a bias factor to external incentive matching 
* Proposal 264: External Incentive Matching Reduction within non-OSMO categories 
* Proposal 273: Phase out Incentives on smaller Other Category pools 
* Proposal 389: Remove Non-OSMO Pool incentives 

Suppose OSMO incentives are to resume being allocated to non-OSMO pools. In that case, alignment must be encouraged between Liquidity Providers for these pools and Osmosis. Since these liquidity providers are mainly after the trading fees in their pairings, they will likely sell any OSMO rewards for bonus yield rather than engaging with its usage. 

This proposed tokenomic change adds some friction to an undesirable user flow for Osmosis while lowering it for a more desirable one, making the choice of OSMO reward usage a conscious one rather than routine. In the event of losses by liquidity providers, they may unstake these rewards and sell to recoup their losses. Until then, the minority of their rewards will further secure their liquidity on chain and earn them staking rewards, partially composed of the taker fees their liquidity helps generate. 

This awareness of the governance process also encourages active liquidity providers on Osmosis to engage with Osmosis governance to request developmental improvements that improve the platform and attract further liquidity providers. 

## Validator Set Preferences 
Implemented in v15 of Osmosis, users can choose their preferred validator set. This allows easy distribution of staked tokens amongst a wider variety of validators while maintaining the desired weighting for new delegations by signing a single transaction that delegates to this weighted validator set. Validator sets can also be recommended by third parties to encourage the distribution of stake amongst validators who match criteria that the third party determines, e.g., active governors, relayers, or core stack contributors. 

If a user has not chosen a validator set, the delegation will default to a user’s current staking distribution as the validator set. This would ensure that rewards are still staked to provide security and earn staking rewards, even if the user has not explicitly chosen a validator set. 

For users who have not staked any tokens, the proposal would cause liquidity rewards to require claiming with a vesting period equivalent to the unbonding period. Liquidity providers should choose a preferred validator set so that their liquidity rewards earn yield rather than being merely vested and does not allow liquidity providers to bypass the auto-stake system by not choosing a validator. 

**Forum Thread:** [https://forum.osmosis.zone/t/automatic-staking-of-osmosis-incentive-rewards/481](https://forum.osmosis.zone/t/automatic-staking-of-osmosis-incentive-rewards/481)
</details>

---

### 🗳 672: 💎$OSMO Airdrop ✅ - CELESTIA TESTNET 
- Voting Start: Mon Oct 30 2023 20:46:57 UTC
- Voting End: Sat Nov 04 2023 20:46:57 UTC

<details>
<summary>Text hidden (blacklist match)</summary>
 
</details>

---

### 🗳 673: Expedited: Establish Superfluid Staking for TIA and redirect a portion of Incentives
- Voting Start: Tue Oct 31 2023 20:03:01 UTC
- Voting End: Sun Nov 05 2023 20:03:01 UTC

<details>
<summary>Proposal Text</summary>
 
On passing, this proposal would enable Superfluid Staking on the TIA/OSMO pools (1248 and 1249) on Osmosis as well as allow the Celestia incentive multisig to spend 50% as many incentives on the TIA/OSMO pool compared to the TIA/USDC pool whilst maintaining the original 6000 OSMO/day cap. 

As Osmosis is aiming to be the primary market for Celestia and rollups using the TIA token this proposal is considered to be important for the functioning of this market and so is being proposed as an expedited proposal. 
## Details 
**Superfluid** 
Superfluid proposals ask whether governance trusts in the stability and security of the chain sufficiently to allow their tokens to have an influence on Osmosis governance. 

This proposal would enable Superfluid Staking in the TIA/OSMO pools (1248 and 1249) with the default 25% discount rate. 

**Incentives on OSMO Pool** 
This proposal will also allow the incentive multisig from [Proposal 655](https://www.mintscan.io/osmosis/proposals/665) to spend up to 
Value per day = Celestia Staking rate per day README.md ccv.png ccvalidators_logo.png chains chains.json chains.schema.json cosmoshub_service_Governance.md cryptocrew-validators-logo.png osmosis_service_Governance.md relayers.json relayers.schema.json reports solva_logo.png update_governance_info.sh Pool TVL README.md ccv.png ccvalidators_logo.png chains chains.json chains.schema.json cosmoshub_service_Governance.md cryptocrew-validators-logo.png osmosis_service_Governance.md relayers.json relayers.schema.json reports solva_logo.png update_governance_info.sh 1.5 
On the TIA/OSMO pools up to a cap of 3000 OSMO/day, with a minimum of 1500 per day. While maintaining the overall cap of 6000 OSMO/day across the two pools from the original proposal. Exempting the initial overlapping period. 

This means that half the incentives being spent on the TIA/USDC pool will be spent on TIA/OSMO pools while retaining the same upper limit in potential spend. Where the 6000 OSMO cap is hit then incentives will be split according to demand of each pool. 
## About Celestia 
Celestia is a new type of blockchain that aims to launch a new modular paradigm where each chain is minimal in composition and highly specialized to perform specific tasks. This specialization provides breakthroughs in scalability, flexibility, and interoperability, enabling developers to build blockchain applications for mass adoption. 

Celestia is specialized as a data availability blockchain with the TIA token used to pay for blobspace. This allows new blockchains to be spun up without their own native token, instead using TIA similarly to ETH on Ethereum-based rollups. Developers may opt to bootstrap their chain quickly by using TIA as a gas token and currency, in addition to paying for data availability. In this mode, developers can focus on creating their application or execution layer instead of issuing a token right away. 

**Forum Thread**
[https://forum.osmosis.zone/t/celestia-launch-expedited-proposals/538](https://forum.osmosis.zone/t/celestia-launch-expedited-proposals/538)
</details>

---

### 🗳 674: Expedited: Add TIA as Fee Token
- Voting Start: Tue Oct 31 2023 20:06:56 UTC
- Voting End: Sun Nov 05 2023 20:06:56 UTC

<details>
<summary>Proposal Text</summary>
 
This proposal would add TIA as a valid fee token for Osmosis transactions. 

This allows users whose only interaction with the Cosmos ecosystem is via Celestia to be able to transact for the first time on Osmosis. 

As Osmosis is aiming to be the primary market for Celestia and rollups using the TIA token this proposal is considered to be important for the functioning of this market and so is being proposed as an expedited proposal. 

Fee tokens currently can only be routed through a Classic pool and so this will be routed through pool 1249. 
## About Celestia 
Celestia is a new type of blockchain that aims to launch a new modular paradigm where each chain is minimal in composition and highly specialized to perform specific tasks. This specialization provides breakthroughs in scalability, flexibility, and interoperability, enabling developers to build blockchain applications for mass adoption. 

Celestia is specialized as a data availability blockchain with the TIA token used to pay for blobspace. This allows new blockchains to be spun up without their own native token, instead using TIA similarly to ETH on Ethereum-based rollups. Developers may opt to bootstrap their chain quickly by using TIA as a gas token and currency, in addition to paying for data availability. In this mode, developers can focus on creating their application or execution layer instead of issuing a token right away. 

 **Forum Thread**: [https://forum.osmosis.zone/t/celestia-launch-expedited-proposals/538](https://forum.osmosis.zone/t/celestia-launch-expedited-proposals/538)
</details>
