## Active Proposals

| Proposal ID | Proposal Title | Voting End Time | VOTED |
|-------------|----------------|-----------------|-------|
| 226 | Round2 Gravity Growth and Sustainability Grant | Mon Jan 29 2024 23:44:42 UTC | ⏳ NOT VOTED |

---

### 🗳 226: Round2 Gravity Growth and Sustainability Grant
- Voting Start: Wed Jan 24 2024 23:44:42 UTC
- Voting End: Mon Jan 29 2024 23:44:42 UTC

<details>
<summary>Proposal Text</summary>
 
The maintenance, sustainability, and usability of Gravity Bridge is dependent on core upgrades and safety improvements and a decentralized front-end ecosystem. Gravity Bride is a decentralized and permissionless bridge operated by validators and an open, free market of relayers. This decentralization and multi-entity support approach has led to Gravity’s traction as a top ten blockchain bridge and charts a sustainable and evolving path forward. n This $GRAV grant encompasses the proposals of three teams, to build and maintain front ends and monitor and perform core upgrades and ecosystem communication. This grant requests the funding necessary for each team to perform these operations and share $GRAV with team members, covering payments for 6 months of work, with further grant proposals anticipated in the future.n Grants will be awarded to each team in a continuous vesting account, which unlocks tokens each day instead of all at once. The vesting duration will be over 1 year. The teams will be able to stake and earn fees associated with staking.n Each team has prepared a document for their proposal linked below. All teams requesting funds agree to abstain from voting on this proposal. nn Gravity Sub-Grant 1 n 15 million GRAV n Blockscape for gravity frontend (bridge.blockscape.network) This is the most widely used Gravity Bridge frontend and Blockscape is committed to furthering the growth and success of the Gravity Bridge, ensuring it remains a robust, efficient, and user-friendly platform. The grant makes sure Blockscape can continue to introduce new features such as NFT bridging and to further enhance the current version of the bridge. n https://drive.google.com/file/d/1jHS0HKAG7CM88_bgWbN36L_iUN6s4OyU/view nn Gravity Sub-Grant 2 n 15 million GRAV n Chandra Station has effectively utilized its initial funding to enhance key projects within the Gravity Bridge ecosystem, including the successful development and maintenance of the alternative bridge app bridge.gravitypulse.app and gravitypulse.app for Gravity Bridge analytics. In their next phase, they aim to further enrich the Gravity Bridge ecosystem. This includes a visual upgrade for the bridge app and added IBC bridging functionality, expanding their unique fee auction application, and developing a stablecoin swapping interface, culminating in a comprehensive DApp shop that unifies diverse functionalities for an improved user experience across the Gravity Bridge ecosystem.n https://docs.google.com/document/d/1Az5NeBIdGCnOwOEYDJTiOleosSe4BfJ5ks0pEPdJH10/edit?usp=sharing nn Gravity Sub-Grant 3 n 15million GRAV n Hawk Networks (Althea team) for core upgrades and safety improvements, as dictated by the community, as well as ecosystem communication and support. The Althea team has supported and maintained the core development and communication of the bridge since the launch in late 2021. As the team expands, the grant also offers a way to sustain operations, including operating RPC and relay nodes, as well as share $GRAV with newer team members. n https://docs.google.com/document/d/1GqdjVGt07t_olXrECfjvZjyhmfJZewP6hEH5QOBhLXw/ nn Multisig n All funds for this proposal will be held in a 3/4 multisig comprised of n Daniel Pittman - Founder, Qwoyn Studios n luisqa - Interbloc Validator n Ethan Kravitz, Partner @ AGE Crypto Asset Funds n Justin Kilpatrick - Gravity LLC n
</details>
